Then there's usability, right?
We need to test usability
on our mock up as well.
And believe it or not, even with a static
mock up, you can test usability, right?
First of all, why are we testing usability
should be kind of obvious, but in
particular, I use it as an opportunity to
address concerns from stakeholders, right?
So often they'll look at
a design mock-up and they'll go,
I don't understand how
the carousel will work or
whatever their problem is, and so
we can run a test to address that concern.
Or for catching issues early, there might
be something that we just not aware of,
and we if we can catch it even on
a design mock-up that's really cool and
also it leads to better products of this.
Who do we test with here?
Well, now, we're talking about usability,
we can use anybody, friends and family.
Again, anybody with the same physical or
cognitive kind of capacities as
our target audience of Fair Game just
not anybody from within the business.
And our options to testing
usability believe or not,
are the 5-second test again.
We can use that again to see
whether people remember the right
elements on the page.
So by showing them the design for 5
seconds we can assess whether they got it,
whether they understood what it was about.
Did they see a particular element?
If they cuz a stakeholder
is often worried,
they didn't see the call to action or
whatever.
And what stood out most on the page.
But actually the one I most like
using when it comes to usability,
is the first click test.
Right, now, if you remember from when
we were talking about information
architecture, I said that if a user
gets the first click correct,
they've got an 87% chance of
completing an action correctly,
as opposed to a 46% chance if
they get the first click wrong.
So, in other words,
with just a static mockup,
you can ask people to say
where they would clean.
We were talking about this some way.
So a first click test is a brilliant way
of establishing whether people will be
able to navigate even from a single
mock up like a homepage, right?
Really easy to do.
You write your question where
would you click to do X,
whatever the area of concern is,
you upload your mockup.
And they basically see
the mockup like that.
And they click anywhere
they want to on the mockup.
So if you said, how would you log in?
They click that log in.
They would click on the log in button.
It wouldn't do anything cuz it's just a
mockup, but that would record as a click,
and then you'd get results back, that
looks something like that, where you can
see everybody's clicking on that
particular fact, isn't the login buttons?
It's the sign up button there?
But anyway, [LAUGH] I'm not
clicking in the same place, good.
We know we're doing a good job, right?
Really simple, results back,
pretty much instantaneous.
Now, you can string all of
these together if you want to.
They're all on the same platform, so
you can do a first click, a semantic
differential survey, a preference survey,
or any of them you want.
Just put them all together,
send them all out in one go, job done.
Incredibly powerful, because it'll
just cut through all the debate and
the discussion with hard facts.
If you wanna go for extra brownie points
and really impress people if the semantic
differential survey didn't blow their
minds, what about eye tracking, right?
Now you think, no way, no way.
Eye tracking,
now we're in big bucks territory.
You've got to have headsets,
it's got to be all fancy.
Actually not these days.
You can use a tool called RealEye,
which is capable of doing
eye tracking with nothing
more than your webcam, right?
Amazing, never used it.
[LAUGH] cuz I've never quite
justified using eye tracking.
But there is a spin-off thing and this is.
I call this a spell checker for
designers, right?
You know how your spell checker
sometimes gets it wrong, right?
But it's useful enough to be worth doing.
There is something called
eye tracking simulation,
and it is basically software
that's taken thousands
of hours of eye-tracking studies and
used AI,
machine learning, blah, blah,
blah, to predict to an,
I think it's to a 90% accuracy where
people will look on design, right?
And so what you can do, is you can take
your mockup, you can upload it, and
it will give you a heat map like the one
you can see on the screen telling you
where people will look on the page.
An amazing tool for quickly putting in
front of stakeholders and going, look,
here is evidence that people are gonna
look at the right things on the page,
right?
Now, is it perfect?
No, it's not.
Is it really cheap?
Yes, it is, $19 a month,
the last time I looked, right?
So, one month of it, and you can check
your design, and It's really that
I don't always pay attention to it
sometimes I upload the graphic and go.
Well I don't really like those results.
So I don't know whether I'm gonna
choose not to believe them and
I don't show them to the client.
If obviously the results backup
everything that I've said and
done then it gets shown to the client,
but I'm fickle like that.
But yeah, It's another nice
thing to have in your arsenal.
The tool that I'm using
is tension insights.
If you wanna have give it a go, and
it will predict where people look.
So this is really gold dust.
Being able to get designed sign off is
often the trickiest part of the process.
And having some lightweight
tests that you can quickly pass
by people to just get them on board.
Especially if you are looking
at a changing brand, and
that kind of brand identity stuff.
This is the point where you are setting
that brand identity, and so this is
the point where you really need to kind of
buckle down and get some data behind you